Theorem 1. 
An agent, which satisfies the LTL formulae f0-f30, never runs into an obstacle.

Proof.
The LTL formula f17 states precisely this.

Lemma 1.
Let there be a path to the target. Therefore in any moment of time it is true that
the agent will eventually reach the goal or will eventually save position closer 
to the target than the already saved position.

Proof.
It follows from formulae f19-f26 that the agent goes towards the target until it
hits an obstacle. Initialy the agent is in the saved cell. If the path towards
the target is clear then it goes towards the target and, therefore, will be closer
to the target than the saved cell. It follows from formulae f12-f15 that when
the agent hits the obstacle it begins a clockwise or counter-clockwise detour.

It follows from formulae f0-f15 that if the agent is detouring then it is detouring
correctly. It follows from the fact that the agent is detouring correctly that 
there exists a moment that the agent is closer to the target than saved cell. 
By this fact and formula f29, it follows that the agent will save its position 
closer than the already saved position or it will reach the target.

It follows from the formulae f0-f3, f12-f15 and the function CalcEndDetour
that the agent can break away from the obstacle if and only if it is directed
towards the target and either it is closer than the last saved cell or it is 
in the saved cell and had not moved from the saved cell since it was saved.

Therefore the agent will be closer than the saved cell at the next move
after detour is finished. Therefore it will either save position closer
than last saved cell or reach the target.

Theorem 2.
If there is a path to the target, then an agent, which satisfies the LTL 
formulae f0-f30, will eventually reach the target.

Proof.
It follows from Lemma 1 that one can construct the sequence from the saved
cells such that each cell is closer to the target than previous one.
As the distance to the target is a non-negative integer, this sequence is finite. 
Therefore after last saved cell the agent will reach the target. It follows
from formulae f18 and f30 that thereafter the agent will perform the "report reached"
action in finite number of steps.

Theorem 3.
If the path does not exist, then an agent, which satisfies the LTL formulae f0-f30,
will eventually perform the "report unreachable" action.

Proof.
The path does not exists if and only if there is an obstacle such that there is
no condition under which it is possible to break away from the obstacle. 
It follows from formula f29 similarly to Lemma 1 that one can construct a sequence 
of saved cells such that each cell is closer to the target than the previous one. 
Similarly to the proof for Theorem 2, this sequence is finite.

Consider the last cell in this sequence. By C_e we denote this cell. The agent will 
never be closer to the target than the cell C_e. Otherwise it follows from formula f29
that the agent will save position after cell C_e. From the formulae f19-f26 it follows 
that the agent saved its position last time during the detour. Therefore on the 
path after C_e there was no condition under which it was possible to break away 
from the obstacle. Therefore the rest of the path of the agent is the detour of this obstacle. 
It follows from formula f30 that the agent will not return the answer that the target is reached.
It follows from formula f28 that either the agent will perform the "report unreachable" 
action in finite number of steps, or eventually one of following statements will be true:
- It is possible to construct an infinite sequence of saved cells such that each cell is
  closer to the target than the previous one. This statement can not be realized in 
  a real field because the distance between the agent and the target is an integer.
- Each next move of the agent will be towards the target. Similarly this statement can
  not be realized in real field.
- In the rest of the path, the agent will detour the obstacle and never visit a saved cell.
  We proved earlier (the formulae f0-f15) that the agent detours the obstacle correctly.
  Therefore this statement can not be realized in field with finite obstacles.

Theorem 4.
An agent, which satisfies the LTL formulae f0-f30, finishes in finite time.

Proof.
As the target may be either reachable (the case of Theorem 2) or unreachable
(the case of Theorem 3), and in both cases the agent finishes in finite time,
the statement of this theorem is also true.

